So in the last section we completed the single.php template. But we still have the comments part missing here,
right?
So let's in this section learn how to display the comments. And we'll also learn how to completely customize
the markup for the comments.
But before doing that let's just do some clean up in our code.
So remember in the index.php and in the archive.php when we wanted to display the
loop we used get_template_part() and then loop.
And then if we are in the archive we use loop archive so that the child theme developers can create a custom
template part just for the archive page,
right?
So let's do the same thing for the single.php.
So here we have the loop index and the loop archive. So let's do loop single here and move this code to a template
part.
So let's open PHP and then get_template_part(). And this will be "loop" and then "single".
So let's now create a new file in the root folder and let's call it loop-single.php. And just paste the content
for the single.php.
So now we have our single page.
Nothing has changed.
We just did some cleanup here.
Let's now display the comments and to do that we'll use a function called comments_template().
So this open PHP tag after the navigation.
So let's save and take a look now. And as you can see we have a comment form now.
But we also have warning.
So WordPress will load the default comments form here but it also mentions that you should have your own comments.php
file in your theme.
And that's actually what we will do in the next lecture.
But in this lecture let's tackle a couple of points before creating our comments.php.
file.
So let's go and find the post, let's type "comments" here.
So we've here a post with comments disabled.
And if you go to the comments part you'll find a string "Comments are closed", right?
So when you create a post let's go to the wp-admin.
So when you create a post you can have the option to disable comments, right, here in discussion.
You can disable comments. So when comments are disabled
we'll have this string here "Comments are closed." But we actually don't need to load the comments form at
all,
if comments are disabled.
Right?
So let's go to the loop-single.php. Let's and an if condition and we've function called comments_open(). So if comments
are open for this post, we will display the comments template. So let's save now.
And as you can see for the disabled comments post we don't have the form at all.
But also there is a possibility that a post used to have comments open.
So it has some comments in it.
But then you decided to close or disable the comments.
So we'll have some comments that we would like to display but at the same time you would like to stop
people from commenting.
Right?
So let's modify this condition here in order to display the comments template if we have comments for
this post. So or and then a function called get_comments_number().
So if we have comments for this post even if the comments are disabled also display the comments template.
And then when we create the comments template we'll make sure to display the comments. But if the
comments are disabled we will display a message of the existing comments that you can't add comments anymore.
Right?
So let's go now to another post in the dummy post. And this one will be the "Template: Comments".
And this one will have all sorts of comments that you could imagine.
And this post is made just to test the comments template. So we have here a long
a very long comment that contains all the HTML elements. And then we have some other comments.
And as you can see comments can be nested. And this can be changed from the wp-admin. So let's go to
wp-admin and Settings and Discussion. And here you have the comment setting.s So you can enable nested
or a threaded comments. And you can choose a depth as well.
So the default is 5.
So here we have a maximum depth of 5.
After that it will stay in the same level. So 6 and 7 and 8 are all at the same level as 5,
right?
And you also have a "Reply" button here.
So if you click on the "Reply" button the page will refresh and then you will have a form at the bottom
which will say "Leave a Reply to" and the person you want to reply for. And if you click "Cancel" the page with
the refresh again and this form will be the regular comments form. And then you can reply to another
one.
So this is kind of weird right?
To refresh the whole page if you want to reply to someone.
It's a bit of an unexpected behavior, right?
I would expect that if you click reply here a form will appear below the comment. And then you can reply.
And WordPress actually allows us to do that.
But it's done using JavaScript. So WordPress has some JavaScript functions that will trigger when you click
on reply and add a form below the comment. And you can reply to the comment.
But in order for this to work you have to enqueue these JavaScript functions
in our theme. So let's go to enqueue scripts
or enqueue-assets.
And then when we enqueue script here in the "wp_enqueue_scripts" function or action we need to enqueue a certain file
here. So "wp_enqueue_script()" and the "handle" for this file.
This file is included in WordPress.
So we don't have to type the source and dependencies and that sort of stuff.
We just need to type the "handle".
So the handle is called "comment-reply".
So when we enqueue this handle WordPress will go and get the comments reply file from the WordPress
core.
So let's save that. And let's go back here and let's click "Reply" now.
And as you can see our JavaScript functions are working.
So let's just view source here.
Let's search for "comment-reply" and as you can see comment-reply is included in wp-includes/js and
so on.
So when you enqueue a JavaScript file that is included in WordPress, in the wp-includes you just have to
type its handle, its name and you won't have to type any other arguments here.
One more thing we only need to load this file in the single page for this reply button to work.
But in any other pages we won't actually have to load this file. So we can do an improvement here to avoid loading
this file in other pages when we actually don't need it. So we can check is_singular().
So is_single() will return "true" only for posts
and post types, custom post types. But it will return "false" for pages and attachments.
is_singular() will return "true" for posts, pages and attachments.
And we use is_singular() because pages can also have comments,
not only posts. So if you used is_single() for a page,
it will return "false".
So you also need to check that comments are open because if comments are closed nobody can reply
and we won't have to load this file.
We also need to check that nested comments are enabled in the wp-admin.
So it's all here in the wp-admin settings
that you can enable and disable threaded comments. So if threaded comments are disabled,
there is no need to load this file.
Because there will be no "Reply" button.
And to get that we will use a function called get_option(). And the "option" name for the threaded comments
is called "thread_comments".
So this way we will make sure that the comment-reply file is only loaded when it's really needed, right?
So let's make sure it's working fine now.
And here let's reply and it's working fine.
All right.
So finally we need to create the comments.php file.
So remember when we created the search form. We used the function called get_search_form() and the WordPress
loaded a default markup for the search form.
But then when we needed to customize this markup we created a file called searchform.php. Same
for the comments. When we need to override the comments template
we can create a function or a file called comments.php and this file will be used for the
comments template. So actually create this in the lib.
So let's delete this and create another one.
So we need to create in the root directory. So comments.php and save
now. And now we will have, let's just type one string. And now we'll have this file loaded instead of the default
one.
So in the next lecture let's see what we should do in order to fill this comments.php form.